chore: Changelog for Kong Gateway 3.4.0.0 (#5905)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/gateway/changelog.md

<!-- vale off -->

## 3.4.0.0
**Release Date** TBA

### Breaking changes and deprecations

* **Cassandra DB support removed:** Cassandra DB support has been removed. 

> It is no longer supported as a datastore for Kong Gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is no longer supported as a data store for Kong Gateway. 
```

* **Alpine support removed:** Alpine packages and Docker images based on Alpine are no longer supported,
Starting with Kong Gateway 3.4.0.0, Kong is not building new Alpine images or packages.
[#10926](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10926)
* **Ubuntu 18.04 support removed**: Support for running Kong Gateway on Ubuntu 18.04 ("Bionic") is now deprecated,
as [Standard Support for Ubuntu 18.04 has ended as of June 2023](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases).
Starting with Kong Gateway 3.4.0.0, Kong is not building new Ubuntu 18.04
images or packages, and Kong will not test package installation on Ubuntu 168.04.

    If you need to install Kong Gateway on Ubuntu 18.04, see the documentation for
    [previous versions](/gateway/3.3.x/install/linux/ubuntu/).
* Vitals is now off by default. To enable it, set `vitals=on` in Kong configuration.
* Amazon Linux 2022 artifacts are renamed to Amazon Linux 2023, based on AWS's own renaming.
* LMDB encryption has been disabled. The option `declarative_config_encryption_mode` has been removed from `kong.conf`.
* The `/consumer_groups/:id/overrides` endpoint is deprecated in favor of a more generic plugin scoping mechanism. 

> See the new [consumer groups]() entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the new [consumer groups](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/937dcdd7-4485-47dc-af5f-b805d562552f/25d728a0-cfe3-4cf4-8e90-93a5bb15cfd9#/consumer_groups/get-consumer_groups) entity.
```

  response latency when updating configuration via the `/config` API endpoint.
  [#10932](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10932)
* Tracing: Added the new attribute `http.route` to HTTP request spans.
  [#10981](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10981)
* Tracing: Added the span attribute `net.peer.name`, which records the upstream hostname if it's 
available in `balancer_data.hostname`.
  Thanks [@backjo](https://github.com/backjo) for contributing this change.
  [#10723](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10729)
* The default value of `lmdb_map_size` config has been bumped to `2048m`
  from `128m` to accommodate most commonly deployed config sizes in DB-less
  and hybrid modes.
  [#11047](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/11047)
* The default value of `cluster_max_payload` config has been bumped to `16m`
  from `4m` to accommodate most commonly deployed config sizes in hybrid mode.
  [#11090](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/11090)
* Removed Kong branding from the kong HTML error template.
  [#11150](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/11150)

#### Plugins

* Validation for plugin queue related parameters has been
  improved. [#10840](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10840)

>   * `max_batch_size`, `max_entries`, and `max_bytes` are now
>   integers instead of numbers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `max_batch_size`, `max_entries`, and `max_bytes` are now declared
  as `integer` not `number`. 
```

  * `initial_retry_delay` and `max_retry_delay` must now be numbers greater 
  than 0.001 (in seconds).

* [**Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) (`rate-limiting-advanced`)
  * The `redis` strategy now catches strategy connection failures.

* [**OpenID Connect**](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`)
  * This plugin now supports the error reason header. 
  This header can be turned off by setting `expose_error_code` to `false`.
  * OpenID Connect now supports adding scope to the token cache key by 
  setting `token_cache_key_include_scope` to `true`.

* [**Kafka Log**](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log/) (`kafka-log`)
  * The Kafka Log plugin now supports the `custom_fields_by_lua` configuration for 
  dynamic modification of log fields using Lua code.

* [**GraphQL Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-rate-limiting-advanced/) (`graphql-rate-limiting-advanced`)
  * The `host` field of this plugin now accepts Kong upstream targets.

* [**OpenTelemetry**](/hub/kong-inc/opentelemetry/) (`opentelemetry`)

>   * Introduced support for the AWS X-Ray propagation header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Introduced support for the AWS X-Ray propagation header.
```

  or service entities.
  [#11306](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/11306)

#### Admin API

* Fixed an issue that caused `POST /config?flatten_errors=1` to throw an exception
  and return a 500 error under certain circumstances.
  [#10896](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10896)
* Fixed an issue where `/schemas/plugins/validate` endpoint failed to validate valid plugin configuration
  when the key of `custom_fields_by_lua` contained dot (`.`) character(s).
  [#11091](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/11091)

#### Status API

* Removed the database information from the status API when operating in DB-less
  mode or on the data plane.
  [#10995](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10995)

#### Plugins

* [**OAuth 2.0 Introspection**](/hub/kong-inc/oauth2-introspection/) (`oauth2-introspection`)
  * Fixed an issue where the plugin failed when processing a request with JSON that is not a table.

* [**gRPC Gateway**](/hub/kong-inc/grpc-gateway/) (`grpc-gateway`)
  * Fixed an issue where an array with one element would fail to be encoded.
  * Fixed an issue where empty (all default value) messages couldn't be unframed correctly.
  [#10836](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10836)

> * * [**Response Transformer**](/hub/kong-inc/response-transformer/) (`response-transformer`) and 

Author: ```suggestion
* [**Response Transformer**](/hub/kong-inc/response-transformer/) (`response-transformer`) and 
```

    * `http_timeout` wasn't correctly set.
  * Optimized CRL revocation verification.
  * Fixed a bug that would cause an unexpected error when `skip_consumer_lookup` is enabled and 
  `authenticated_group_by` is set to `null`.

* [**Kafka Log**](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log/) (`kafka-log`) and [**Kafka Upstream**](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/) (`kafka-upstream`)
  * Fixed an issue where the plugin could lose connection to a broker when the broker leadership changed.

* [**OAS Validation**](/hub/kong-inc/oas-validation/) (`oas-validation`)
  * Fixed an issue where the plugin was unable to pass the 
  validation even if path parameter was valid.
  * Fixed an issue where the plugin always validated the request body even 
  if the method spec had no `requestBody` defined.
  * Fixed an issue where the comparison between large absolute value numbers could be incorrect 
  due to the number being converted to exponential notation.

* [**Request Validator**](/hub/kong-inc/request-validator/) (`request-validator`)
  * Optimized the response message for invalid requests.

* [**ACME**](/hub/kong-inc/acme/) (`acme`)

>  * Fixed an issue where the sanity test didn't work with `kong` storage in hybrid mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Fixed an issue where the sanity test didn't work with `kong` storage in hybrid mode.
```
